If you take one thing away from Claude
code, let it be this workflow: explore,
plan, code, and commit.
Without this, most people jump straight
to pasting in Claude to write code,
which means more course correcting later
on.
The fastest way to handle step one and
two is with plan mode. With plan mode,
Claude can't edit files. It just reads
files to gather research on how to
tackle this implementation. To enter
plan mode, hit shift and tab until you
see the plan mode under the text input.
I need to add WebP conversion to our
image upload pipeline. Figure out where
in the pipeline it should happen,
whether we need new dependencies, and
how to approach it.
And Claude will read relevant files, do
some web searches, and give you a plan
of action.
Make sure you review it and determine if
it meets your criteria.
Otherwise, I can ask it to add on or
revise some areas.
Perfect. And this right here is the best
place to course correct because it's
before any code is written. You can also
use explore without being in plan mode
by just asking Claude to explore your
code base.
Now, once the plan looks good, you can
select approve to accept the plan and
let Claude toggle all of the list items
it provided. You can determine if you
want Claude to auto accept the file
edits or ask every single time. Claude
will do its best to troubleshoot your
code base before considering the plan
finished. But at times, you'll need to
course correct. This is the benefit of
working with plan mode because after the
plan is finished, we also have the
context of how it got to the results to
help it guide its next decision.
In order for Claude to be confident in
its results, it has to be clear on what
it deems correct. When writing your
plan, make this explicit.
Adding tools that will help Claude
complete its goals will remove a lot of
back and forth.
For example, if you're building web UIs,
make sure you have the Claude and Chrome
extension so that Claude code can
control a tab and test out the UI before
deeming it finished.
In your project, include a test suite
that Claude can continuously validate
on.
Claude can even write tests for you.
Before passing this off to Claude, make
sure that the tests are a source of
truth for you and your team to avoid any
false positives.
Quick tip, if you find Claude keeps
running into the same issues, ask Claude
to save the solution to his Claude MD
file.
Now, once you have tested for yourself
and are happy with the results, it's
time to push your code. A tip before you
commit, run a sub agent code reviewer to
look at your code.
Then you get Claude to generate a commit
message for you in your style. Rinse and
repeat.
>> [music]
>> If you want to be effective with Claude
code, follow the explore, plan, code,
and commit workflow. Exploration will
give the relevant context Claude needs
for your project. Plan will create a
plan of action that Claude will use to
determine if they are successful. Code
is the back and forth that you and
Claude do before settling on the final
outcomes of the plan.
Commit helps you review and push your
code so you can start on your next
feature.